# Plant-Disease-Detector
One of the important sectors of the Indian Economy is Agriculture. Employment for almost 50% of the country's workforce is provided by the Indian agriculture sector.
India is known to be the world's largest producer of pulses, rice, wheat, spices, and spice products. Farmers' economic growth depends on the quality of the products that they produce, which relies on the plant's growth and the yield they get. Therefore, in the field of agriculture, the detection of disease in plants plays an instrumental role. Plants are highly prone to diseases that affect the growth of the plant which in turn affects the ecology of the farmer. In order to detect a plant disease at the very initial stage, the use of an automatic disease detection technique is advantageous. The symptoms of plant diseases are conspicuous in different parts of a plant such as leaves, etc. Manual detection of plant disease using leaf images is a tedious job. Hence, it is required to develop computational methods which will make the process of disease detection and classification using leaf images automatic.

Plant disease identification by the visual way is a more laborious task and at the same timeless accurate and can be done only in limited areas. Whereas if an automatic detection technique is used it will take less effort, less time, and be more accurately.  
The main objective of this system is to identify the disease in the leaves and notify the farmers so that they can give the corresponding pesticides to that leaves. It decreases the nearby leaves' infected in a short period. Using image processing we can easily spot the infected area in the leaves.
